
This is a brief description of the current support for GLUE 2.0 in
the glite-info-provider-service package - this file will be expanded later.

The provider glite-info-service-glue2 is a direct drop-in subsitute for
glite-info-service, which reads the same configuration file and
writes essentially the same information in the GLUE 2 format. This
provider is intended only for initial testing and will not be developed
further.

glite-info-glue2-service is a script which creates a GLUE 2 Service
object using information passed via its arguments. This is more
of a text processor than a true info provider and is intended to be
called from a higher-level script, although it could be called
directly for very simple cases.

glite-info-glue2-endpoint is a provider to generate GLUE 2 Endpoint
and AccessPolicy objects. This uses a configuration file which is similar
to, and backward-compatible with, the file used for the GLUE 1 provider,
but supports extra parameters to enable the new GLUE 2 attributes
to be published. This allows essentially all GLUE 2 features to
be used.

glite-info-glue2-simple is a wrapper script which calls the service and
endpoint scripts mentioned above. It only supports simple services
with a single Endpoint, but this covers the majority of the current
uses for the GLUE 1 provider. It is backward-compatible with the
GLUE 1 provider in the sense that it can be called with the same
arguments and the same config file, but is a lot more flexible. In particular
it allows a second configuration file to specify attributes
in the Service object.

Extended configuration files for the various supported services will
be added over time, starting with the BDII itself. In some cases,
e.g. VOMS, a service-specific wrapper script will also be needed as
there may be multiple Endpoints per Service.

This provider can potentially be used as a skeleton for Computing and Storage
services, but these will need substantial further development which is
beyond the scope of a generic provider.

The rpm contains two test configuration files in the etc directory,
which can be used to test the functionality of the provider and can
also be used as a template to develop configurations for new services. To
perform such a test, make the etc directory the cwd, add the src
directory to the PATH, and run the following command:

glite-info-glue2-simple glite-info-glue2-test.conf.template,glite-info-glue2-service-test.conf.template

